to 8 27 now millionaires have a critical
role to play in healing our world who
said so well a group of millionaires
you've written a letter
calling on politicians to acknowledge
that tax increases on the wealthy
are in their words essential one of
those who signed is gary stevenson
a former interest rate trader and he
joins us on the line morning to you
good morning nick it's an unusual
message this i'm rich
tax me yes it is an unusual message but
i guess this is a pretty
unusual time and uh i think it's going
to be very important
how would you want governments to tackle
the wealthy
well for me i think one of the most
important things when we deal with
tackling the wealthy
is that we develop a tax system that is
able to tax wealth and not just income
so we currently have a tax system which
is relatively good at taxing people who
work for their money and earn a lot of
money such as
footballers and sometimes bankers if
they're not trying to dodge it
but people who have very large amounts
of money and
accumulate their income through things
like capital gains or trusts
uh we're very bad at taxing them that
means we end up with a system
where people who work and people who
earn money uh
make a have to pay a lot of tax whereas
uh the very richest in our society often
end up paying
nothing all next to nothing so is this a
question of a wealth tax as against
just higher rates of income tax or is it
about finding a way to stop
money being moved from one country to
another and
always avoiding the tax authorities of
that particular country
to be honest i think those two questions
have to be considered hand in hand
because there's no point bringing in a
wealth tax which has
loopholes in it because if you put
loopholes in your tax system
then the people who will exploit those
loopholes will be the people with the
best tax accountants
and those are generally the very richest
and you know our taxes
is littered with loopholes i remember
when they brought in the second home
stamp duty an extra three percent for
second home buyers
perfectly reasonable tax there was an
exemption for people who bought seven or
more at once
i mean that tells you the tax system we
have now and the people who pay the
people who don't
now many of the names you saw in this
letter are relatively well known richard
curtis for example the
film director christina johansen the
philanthropist
you're not so well known but clearly
made a lot of money very young
trading in the city and having read some
of what you've written
it feels as if when you watched the
traders around you
you were rather revolted at the business
that have made you so rich
well um some of them might be listing it
so probably be careful what i say
the truth is um i had a lot of
disagreements culturally with
some people when i worked in the city um
there are some elements of that industry
which can be a little bit unseemly at
times but definitely
some people who are won't name names um
but actually
you know i learned a lot work in the
city and some parts i really enjoyed the
um
the job analyzing the economy was
fantastically interesting and there were
some
really intelligent and interesting
people and some people who were really
really good to me when i was there so i
don't want to tell all bankers with the
same brush i think as you'll find in
every walk of life you'll find good and
bad people
but yeah there were definitely parts of
that industry which uh
left a bit of taste in my mouth gary
stevenson thank you very much for
joining us